Vomed Jademantle was born in [[./Dynnegall|Dynnegall]] to Darla and Evan Jademantle. Coming from a modest income, they lived a relatively uneventful life, with Evan profiting from passive income due to his alchemical studies, and Darla who was the daughter of a renowned stonesmith and had a sizable inheritance. Vomed inherited these natural talents but elected to spend his time focusing on leatherworking and woodworking to separate himself from his parent's shadow. In his early adulthood, he came to know Lillian, a high-elf who hailed from Dynnegal as well. She shared a number of interests with Vomed, telling him of her dream to one day open a shop of her own where she could sell her crafts. They soon started dating, eventually marrying within the decades that followed. Vomed and Lillian moved into the Jademantle home, allowing them time to save funds for the shop they intended to open, while also planning for their future.

Tragedy struck one night when a lycanthrope burglar attacked the Jademantle home. Darla and Evan were up later than the pair, as they were exhausted from their crafts, and the former were unfortunately killed. Awoken by the noise, Vomed and Lillian rushed to help only to be injured by the attacker, being cursed by the lycanthropy. Due to the curse now running through their veins, they became suspects in the investigation, with a detective claiming that Vomed had killed his parents in an attempt to claim the inheritance to start the business that he and Lillian always wanted. [[Roles Aloro|Roles Aloro]], who had been in town during the incident, helped the case be solved and cleared the couple's names, however, between the incident and the trial, Vomed and Lillian decided it best to get away from the city for the time being. As luck would have it, a vessel was setting sail to the northern isles, a chance to lay claim to the land and make it home, an offer quite enticing to the pair.

The journey was relatively simple, however, their new home proved dangerous, and the wilds did not want to relinquish their control. From perpetual lightning strikes on the beach preventing safe transfer between shore and vessel, beasts coming out at night to steal food, and in-fighting caused by fatigue and dread, the new home merely made the couple miss the comforts of their old one. The leader of the expedition suffered heavily from anxiety and distrust of the other crew members, so much so that he was found dead after an altercation he caused with another denizen, whom he believed was poisoning his food. Due to the rapid decline in resources, an expedition team was formed to venture into the wilds, with the hope of either recovering any of the stolen supplies or harvesting some from the unforgiving land. Vomed was elected as lead, his knack for wood chopping for cutting down trees and his unusually keen nose aiding in sensing unseen foes. The group ventured for a few hours, discovering remnants of crates from the camp across the forest. They eventually came across a cavern entrance that was littered with destroyed shipments and supplies. They entered the cavern, cautious of what lay inside. Eventually reaching the back of the cave, Vomed noticed a blue crystal of notable size. Upon touching the crystal, it let out a pulse that vaporized the men in the expedition team, save for Vomed. He fell into unconsciousness, later rescued by a recovery team from the camp. Vomed was in and out of consciousness for days, leading Lillian to decide to take him back to Dynnegal, alongside other injured and ill, so that they might receive proper treatment. This included the recently elected team lead, who was suffering from similar hysteria to his predecessor.

Vomed recovered within a few days of arriving back in the city, and upon his full recovery, the pair took what money they had and decided that [[./Irinade|Irinade]] would be their new home, as Dynnegal still held bad memories. They managed to arrive safely, and quickly found work within the city. Within a few years, they managed to save up enough to open the shop the pair had dreamed about, which focused on selling decent quality, functioning yet stylish shoes and clothes to the working class, of which mostly made up [[./Irinade|Irinade]]. With the funds they earned, and the skills they had picked up, the pair created the mountainside dwelling that would become their new family home. Life was good for a while, however, Vomed would have “accidents” every now and again, relapses of unconsciousness. They would have to frequently visit Dynnegal for divine healing, using the Jademantle home during these visits, however, Vomed’s health would only stay stable for a set amount of time. This became costly, and the couple would have to take out many loans from the noble family of [[./Irinade|Irinade]] to manage, eventually resulting in them losing the business. Vomed felt frustrated over the events, blaming himself for their troubles, however, Lillian would always try and convince him to see the positive. Good news came one day, when Lillian told Vomed of her being pregnant, something she thought would bring him joy. However, this only brought more fear for Vomed, as he worried about passing their curse onto the child. This extreme anxiety brought on another fit, this one worse than the ones before, and Vomed slipped into unconsciousness, seemingly for the last time.